MYSQL BEST PRATICES

1. Use upper case letters for SQL keywords 
	i.e. SELECT,WHERE,INSERT
2. End all your SQL commands using semi colons. 
	eg. SELECT * FROM TABLE_NAME;
3. Avoid using spaces in schema, table and field names. Use underscores instead to separate schema, table or field names 
	eg. CREATE TABLE EMPLOYEE_DETAILS(Id int);
4. Always use proper data type for every filed of table.
	eg. if you are storing date type data do not use "VARCHAR" data type use "DATATIME","DATE" data type.
5. If you are entring only test values use "CHAR" data type instead of "VARCHAR".
6. Use sammlest data type as you can to increase the meomry performance.
7. Use data type format as "YYYY-MM-DD" as it is a ISO data format and can be recoginsed everywhere.
8. Use query cache to increase the performance.
	eg. If you requires "ORDER_ID" multiple time then store it in your cache , 
			$order_id = mysql_query("SELECT Order_Id FROM Product");

9. When you just want to check is any attribute is present in a table then use "Limit", so that the database engine will stop scanning for 	   records after it finds just 1 
	eg.	SELECT Company_Name FROM companies where Company_Name = "TCS" LIMIT 1;
10. Avoid using "SELECT *" as to read large data more time is required for "Disk Operation" and for web server you may face network delay.
11. Use Id int flied as your primary key , because varchar fields as primary keys are slower. 
	i.e Suppose you have user table and name as a primary key but giving user_id as primary key increase the query performance.
12. For "VARCHAR" datatype using ENUM is advantages as "ENUM" type columns are very fast and compact.
13. If possible avoid using "NULL" because NULL Columns requires extra space in rows to record whether their values are NULL.
14. Try to make columns of table as of "Fixed length".
15. Use "Vertical Partitioning" as it shrinks the table size. And as we know samller tables performs faster.
16. Use order by clause if needed because it slow downs the response time in multi-user environment.

